
					BARTON YARBOROUGH
From the time DRAGNET first aired on radio in 1949 until its final episode on television in 1970, Jack Webb would enlist a handful of actors to fill in as Joe Friday's partner, though only three of them would be remembered for that role. 
Jack Webb's first sidekick was William Barton Yarborough. Yarborough was born in Texas to Patrick D. and Mollie Ardena Yarborough on October 2,1900. 
Yarborough began his acting career in the theater, where he studied with the EVA LE GALLIENNE COMPANY, and though he would go on to work in all four areas of show business, Theatre, Film, Radio and Television, it would be his work in radio that would be best remembered. He starred in several long-running programs as well as guest starred on many others, and it wasn't long before Barton Yarborough became one of radio's busiest character actors. 
On Friday, April 29,1932 NBC aired its newest soap opera from 9:30 to 10:00pm. It told the story of Henry and Fanny Barbour and their five children, Paul, Hazel, Claudia, Clifford and Jack. The show was "ONE MAN'S FAMILY" and in the role of Clifford was Barton Yarborough. He would remain with the series until his death in 1951. The show ran until May 8, 1959, leaving behind 3256 episodes (and that's not counting repeats), making it the longest-running series on American radio. 
Throughout its 27 years on the air, actors came and left. Some went on to become famous, like Richard Crenna, Hans Conreid, Rosemary DeCamp and Howard (Floyd the barber) McNeer, while others, such as silent star Francis X. Bushman, had already learned the price of fame and were happy to still be working. 
And then there are the actors who would go on to become a part of the Jack Webb Stable. Besides Barton Yarborough, there was Bill Bouchey, Janet Waldo, Virginia Gregg, Vic Perrin (who is best remembered as the voice on THE OUTER LIMITS), and Herb Butterfield, who would fill in as Friday's partner after Bart's death. 
		
For the old Time Radio Researchers, I"m ________________your announcer.