Although Joy Jostyn was not secret agent k7 he apparently played the part of agent Z who is frequently was the principle agent in the show.

Jostyn's career seemed inexorably connected to some sort of legal tether for almost his entire career in Radio, Television and Film. For almost five years, the title role of the NBC dramatic show, "Mr. District Attorney," fell each week into the capable hands of Jay Jostyn, a, by then, well-known radio player. Jostyn, a handsome Milwaukee lad, was a product of Marquette University and the University of Wisconsin Dramatic School. He made his professional debut in his home town at 19, then took his turn at stock and landed in radio in 1936, while on the West Coast. As Mr. D. A., Jostyn was heard every Wednesday at 8:30 p. m., EST, over the NBC-Red network. 
Even though he'd had only a couple of years of stock experience by the late 1930s, he'd attained his degree in Dramatic Arts from the University of Wisconsin. By 1938 he was teaching Radio Drama himself. From the Nov. 1, 1938 Emporia Gazette:
EMPORIA GETS IN.
Jay Jostyn, who married Ruth Hill, an Emporia woman with a great deal of acting ability, has been a member of Blanche Yurka's Summer School of the Theater in Carmel, N. Y., serving as a teacher. Mr. Jostyn is head of the radio department of the school and will intruct students in a professional understanding of the technique of the air. Mrs. Jostyn is a niece of Jay Robinson and Alice B. Robinson of Emporia.
One of Radio's busiest young actors, we find this notice from the July 29, 1940 edition of the Time Recorder, underscoring just how busy he was:
"Radio actor Jay Jostyn once appeared in 35 script shows in one week, portraying 45 different characters."
By 1940, Jay Jostyn and his wife, Ruth Hill, a former actress, were settling into a very successful Radio career from their home on Long Island. But apparently Jay Jostyn often took his work home with him. This, from a June 18, 1942 Bell Syndicate wire release:
Canned: Police of Manhasset, L.I. rushed to a house in which neighbors the other afternoon heard sounds of a gun fight and struggle. The officers sirened their way to the front door, forced their way in and, to their amazement, found, instead of a raging battle, merely a peaceful family scene. It seems that Jay Jostyn and bis wife had been listening to a recording of the radio program in which Jostyn plays the title role and the neighbors had mistaken the canned revolver fire for the real thing.
(Bell Syndicate—WNU Service)
Jostyn, at left voted "the handsomest actor on Radio," by the girls of Hunter College, didn't need a lot of help in the grooming department. This, from the September 9, 1943 Troy Record:
Actor Cuts Hair
Manhasset <AP>— An actor without a barber is practically an actor out of work, unless the actor is Jay Jostyn. For Jostyn cuts his own hair. Fifteen years ago he formed the habit when he was playing in stock companies—and couldn't get a barber to cut his hair the way he wanted it cut.
Now Jostyn, a successful radio star, cuts the hair of both his sons—and occasionally that of his wife.
As is turns out, Jostyn was apparently taking his Radio role as Mr. District Attorney very seriously, indeed. From 1939 forward, Jostyn was often seen in local court rooms and Night Court sessions, absorbing as much as he could from the real-life legal proceedings. You'll want to hold that Night Court thought for a bit, but in the interim, here's a newsy notice from the January 9, 1944 Zanesville Signal:
If his neighbors in Manhasset, L.I., have anything to say about it, it will be Congressman Jay Jostyn after the coming elections. Jostyn known to millions of dialers as the "Mr. District Attorney" of the air (Wednesdays,' 9:30 p. m., EWT NBC), is being urged by friends in the district to run for Congress in November!
If those were the same neighbors that almost turned him in a couple years earlier, we can perhaps infer that Manhasset was a gun-totin', gun-rights, Republican stronghold. As it turned out, Jostyn didn't take them up on their suggestion to run for Congress. But he did re-enter the courtroom in 1958, this time as a sitting Judge: Judge Jay Jostyn of Night Court over local Television station KTLA, until it went national as Night Court U.S.A.

In a Radio career spanning almost thirty years, Jay Jostyn compiled an impressive array of Radio credits, but it seems he'll be forever associated with his role as Mr. District Attorney. In Film and Television, Jostyn was also often cast as an attorney or judge of one era or another. To his great credit, he wasn't above parodying himself from time to time as well--in both Radio and Television.

Jostyn's Television career was as busy as his Radio career had been. Though never again finding a starring vehicle after his stint on Night Court, Jay Joystyn remained very busy indeed for the remainder of his acting career in a wide array of solid supporting roles and guest appearances.

One of Radio's more durable--and widely popular--radio stars, Jostyn succumbed to a reported heart ailment in 1976. He was survived by his wife of 48 yrs and their sons.

Eugene 'Jay' Jostyn
(Secret Agent 'Z')
Stage, Radio, Television and Film Actor
(1901-1976)

Birthplace: Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S.A.

Education: Marquette University; University of Wisconsin Drama School

Radiography: 
1933 Lives Of the Great
1937 Our Gal Sunday
1937 Rubinoff and His Musical Moments Revue
1937 Phyl Coe Mysteries
1938 Great Plays
1938 This Day Is Ours
1939 Secret Agent K-7 Returns
1939 Radio Guild
1939 Mr District Attorney
1939 Doctor Christian
1940 The Parker Family
1942 Man Your Battle Stations
1944 Foreign Assignment
1945 Radio Hall Of Fame
1945 Treasury Salute
1945 New World A' Coming
1946 Radio Reader's Digest
1946 The Raleigh Room
1945 Lest We Forget:  These Great Americans
1946 NBC Parade Of Stars
1946 I Shall Not Want
1948 Marine Story
1949 Closed Circuit:  Parade Of Stars Weekly Preview
1960 Heartbeat Theater